Release notes and Migration guide for Hostname v2 (#28621)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/documentation/upgrading/topics/changes/changes-25_0_0.adoc

= New Hostname options

Hostname v2 options are supported by default, as the old hostname options are deprecated and will be removed in the following releases.
New options are activated by default, so {project_name} will not recognize the old options.

List of necessary migrations:

[%autowidth,cols="a,a"]
|===
| Old options | New options

|`hostname <hostname>` +
`hostname-url <url>` +
`hostname-path <path>` +
`hostname-port <port>`
|`hostname <hostname/url>`
|`hostname-admin <hostname>` +
`hostname-admin-url <url>`
|`hostname-admin <hostname/url>`
|`hostname-strict-backchannel <true/false>`
|`hostname-backchannel-dynamic <true/false>`
|===

> As you can see, the `*-url` suffixes were removed for `hostname`, and `hostname-admin` options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, the `*-url` suffixes were removed for `hostname` and `hostname-admin` options.
```

These options accept both hostname, and URL now.

> Additionally, there is no way how to separately set `path`, or `port`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, there is no way how to separately set `path` or `port`.
```

You can achieve it by providing the full URL for the `hostname` option.

NOTE: In order to use the old hostname options, turn on the feature `hostname:v1`, e.g. `features=hostname:v1`.

> Be aware, that either `hostname:v1`, or `hostname:v2` can be enabled, not both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be aware, that either `hostname:v1` or `hostname:v2` can be enabled, not both.
```

> For more details, and more comprehensive scenarios, see https://www.keycloak.org/server/hostname2[Configuring the hostname (v2)].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details, and more comprehensive scenarios, see https://www.keycloak.org/server/hostname[Configuring the hostname (v2)].
```

Additionally, there is no way to set `path` or `port` separately.
You can achieve it by providing the full URL for the `hostname` and `hostname-admin` options.

If the port is not part of the URL, it is dynamically resolved from the incoming request headers.

HTTPS is no longer enforced unless it is part of `hostname` and `hostname-admin` URLs.
If not specified, the used protocol (`http/https`) is dynamically resolved from the incoming request.
The `hostname-strict-https` option is removed.

[%autowidth,cols="a"]
|===
| Removed options

|`hostname-url`
|`hostname-admin-url`
|`hostname-path`
|`hostname-port`
|`hostname-strict-backchannel`
|`hostname-strict-https`
|===

NOTE: In order to use the old hostname options to have more time for migration, turn on the feature `hostname:v1`, e.g. `features=hostname:v1`.
Be aware, that either `hostname:v1` or `hostname:v2` can be enabled, not both.

== Examples

.Simplified notation
[source,bash]
----
# Hostname v1
bin/kc.[sh|bat] start --hostname=mykeycloak.org --https-port=8543 --hostname-path=/auth --hostname-strict-https=true

# Hostname v2
bin/kc.[sh|bat] start --hostname=https://mykeycloak.org:8543/auth
----

> As the `hostname` now accepts hostname and URL, we can simplify the hostname settings directly by it.

Reviewer: Here I would get rid of "we" pronoun to redirect the narrative more towards "them". I assume you wanted to say that the setup process is now a lot simpler. If so, I would rephrase it a bit to make the sentence a bit more clear, something like: 
```suggestion
As you can see in the example, all the parts of a URL can be now specified via single `hostname` option, which simplifies the hostname setup process.
```

Notice that HTTPS is not enforced by the `hostname-strict-https` option, but by specifying it in the hostname URL.

.Backchannel setting
[source,bash]
----
# Hostname v1
bin/kc.[sh|bat] start --hostname=mykeycloak.org --hostname-strict-backchannel=true

# Hostname v2
bin/kc.[sh|bat] start --hostname=mykeycloak.org --hostname-backchannel-dynamic=false
----

> In order to use the same URL for backend as for frontend endpoints, we need to be aware of a different behavior between hostname versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be aware that there is a change in behavior if the same URL is to be used for both backend and frontend endpoints.
```
